---
title: Bake With NOT Bake Off...!
date: 2018-09-10 11:22:00 Z
thumbnail-image: "/uploads/DSC_6912.jpg"
---

*When* I rule the world, the first thing I will do is exchange > Bake Off>  for a programme called > Baking *With*> ...Yes, I do have a Walter Mitty fantasy life, in which one day I'm on Desert Island Discs, the next I'm in the stocks, too ashamed to even show my face as part of the human race. It is cooking that contains my neurotic imagination in the real world, where I can satisfy my hunger (which is huge) at the level of mind, body and spirit. I connect with the here and now, with the ingredients, the meal and the people around me. Because I can share what I cook, whether that's in the preparation (I love a bit of help), in the audience (I love an applause!) or just with the dish itself (I always fall a little in love), I am brought into the world of belonging. I feel part of my world when I cook its resources into a meal that I take and give to the table.

That's why I'd get rid of the competitive, who's the best, Bake Off, and replace it with a gentler, more sustainably satisfying programme about baking with one another.  Food is about relationship, connection, about tender-loving-care. I know that competition is attention grabbing, but that is here and gone. The focus is on the object cooked, which again, is gone as soon as it arrives (if it's cake on my plate). Our target driven world, focused on what we do forgets or ignores the magnificent process of careful endeavour behind that actually lasts a lifetime. If we remember, take the time, to notice.

I learned to cook by baking with my grandmother. A key moment that has seeded my career, was the taste of her first home grown tomato soup. Incredible. Exquisite. Delight. The taste of gratitude spilled into my heart. That moment of tasting that soup for the first time, continues to feed my world today - the memory stirs cookery, sometimes therapy sessions, reminding us that nourishment is as much about nurture as it is about nutrition.

This last summer holiday, I have been lucky enough to lead family cooking workshops.  Sharing and exchanging skills, stories and resources, we all felt truly proud of ourselves - together. My 20year old daughter took time to join in, I was proud of her.  People liked the recipes, I was pleased. Everyone enjoyed the food they made and went home happy. I felt good. We all did. The smiles on people's faces as they realised how good their food tasted, just right for them, were utterly priceless. Whilst we all felt pleased with ourselves, we were also alongside each other - in it together, finding our place around the table.  These sessions continue to inspire my work today and I am busy dreaming up new recipes for the autumn term. When we bake with, everyone wins.  More than that, the feeling we get from those moments grows and sustains our creative, community spirit.  Competitive moments of winners and losers offer only short term satisfaction, and when that moment is gone, we will, as cooks of the world, replace it with Baking With... Grandmother...?     