---
title: Pure  Potential
date: 2019-03-22 10:08:00 Z
---

A highlight of my week is listening to [This Jungian Life Podcast](http://www.thisjungianlife.com/heres-the-podcast/) - three Jungian analysts discussing issues of the day and dreams of the month, that stimulates my own thinking whilst lending me the feeling that i have 3 new therapeutic parents to call on for support.  I find their work both comforting and inspiring, amazed to find how often the topics they choose chime with where I am and what I need that week.  Last week, as I was in my Ayervedic detox programme (involving eating Mung bean dahl for 10 days more or less - less on the day you fast completely - yes, it's a challenge) they discussed [food purity,](http://http://www.thisjungianlife.com/episode-49-dietary-over-regulation-and-the-pursuit-of-purity/) one i see with clients wanting to 'eat clean'. So, once again our paths crossed - they truly are my folks!
Everyone is taken aback that I will be restricting my diet to mung dahl for 10 days, partly from their own perspective, but also from knowing me and my food focused mind, they wonder how (and why) this will work... I explain that my allergies have been so bad, I am motivated to cleanse on a physical level. On a psychological level, my addictions (caffeine, phone, sugar and more) lead me to distraction - clouding my mind with their noisy clamour for attention, leading back to the physical irritations I suffer. I am looking for clarity, compassion and care to guide me, rather than my default search for salvation in the outer world. My ego head often demands a mood changing lift from a gulp of espresso or spoon of ice cream - by meeting the itch, it comes back stronger and I'm on the hamster wheel - again.  
It's particularly annoying to find oneself here, when one specialises in working with addiction, and know myself well in this area. But of course, we always need help, the perspective to see what's going on in our minds, which this therapeutic Mung dahl diet gives me.  The comfort food represents is ever present in my personal and professional life. The key that I work on, is separating the psychological comfort I need from the physical food I want, working towards inner alignment that desires healing.  As a kitchen therapist, I know it's not just the food i eat, but how I make it, that will answer my need. the quality of my attention, the nature of my intentions in the cooking choices i make, are crucial ingredients in the cleansing process. Essentially, I need mind body and spirit, my child, parent and adult self, all to pull together in the shared aim of feeling better - in myself.
Given the longevity and apparent strength of my food urges, it always amazes me how I suffer little or no sense of craving when I do this diet.  It is true that the spices, mung beans and ghee work hard to satisfy; but it has as much to do with my state of mind, how nurturing I am in the making of the dahl. I notice the pleasure I get from the practical and playful task of cooking the medicinal dahl for myself.  As the food itself is not so exciting (day after day after all...), I focus attention on the process of making it, on the desired intention to look after my inner world.  Somehow this works.  It is my own alchemical practice that reaches into the magic of mung dahl.

The reason diets are so hard to follow or that our addictions are so hard to resist, is that we are focussed on the external object of food itself. this left brained, singular dimension leaves us empty and needing more.  Food is gone almost as soon as it arrives.  However, the imaginative, caring satisfaction from making a meal, for ourselves and maybe others, feeds our soul long after the meal is gone.  we know that food is the way to our hearts, it is the language of love our bodies hear.  My grandmother was a wonderful cook, I adored her food, she has given me my vocation.  sadly, neither she nor her incredible lime cheesecake are here today, but what they meant to me, continue to work their sustaining magic. 

Information and thinking in this area around food and mood, or perhaps food purity, or of course, weight loss. Not only do we raise the desirability of the physical food and indulge in notions of absolute perfection, but we leave ourselves needing more (of what we dont need).  The emptiness comes from missing the attention, the loving intentions, the psychological nurture Nature intended us to receive from food.

Think back to a meal you really enjoyed recently, or to being a child and how meal times were - those memories will be quite evocative for many reasons.  How we eat informs who we are, it is the basis of our humanity to cook and share food together, fundamental to our bonding behaviour.  By returning our attention to the imaginative, playful and thoughtful process behind the food we eat, the provenance of the ingredients, the recipes and the stories they hold, we find food is about so much more than what's on the plate. 