---
title: Dish of the Day
date: 2019-09-02 15:44:00 Z
---

I met Elijah at my daughter's 21st party here. He was playing the piano with a gentle certitude that caught my ear - I enjoyed getting to know more about him, and saw an opportunity to make the podcast I've been planning for nearly 10 years... Like making a meal, coordinating the timing is crucial - finding someone who can offer the technical know-how, at the same time I had the space for action, has only just come together.  Over the preparation and cooking period, the concept of Kitchen Therapy has ripened.  The seed has taken root, the tree grown, and this podcast feels like its first fruit.
As Elijah and I talked about the purpose and content of Kitchen Sessions, I realised that he was perfect for the job.  He was philosophically and emotionally in tune with the ideas, was a calm and supportive ballast, and has a delicious voice, with a helpful dollop of food enthusiasm. Our conversation began with his hope for getting a First in his music production degree (which he has since achieved), but we talked about the process of learning being so much more valuable in the long term than the specific result itself.  How we need the target of an exam to hold the space of motivation and structure for us, but that our understanding and what the course means to us, cannot be summarised in a grade.  This is much like cooking - we need the physical goal of making (and eating) a meal to guide our action, but it is the quality of our attention, imagination and enjoyment in the process of cooking that offers us the psychological nutrition of tender loving care, necessary for a complete meal.  Which is where the idea of Kitchen Sessions - finding out about people's signature dish, takes off from.  Listening to the stories, memories and feelings we have about a particular meal, how we relate to it and feel it relates to us, let us into a more timeless sustenance around our need for connection, that each meal, each morsel even can be about.